The idea behind our approach was to prepare a checkerboard (Z2) state on a square lattice, then quench to the inverse of that checkerboard pattern. The checkerboard pattern was chosen due to its reliability of preparation, especially for an odd number of atoms, since one of the two checkerboards would be favored. The transition to the inverse leveraged Rabi oscillations to flip all of the atom states at the same time. Allowing the oscillations to go for just half a period lets us freeze the atoms into the inverse pattern. 

Our approach to the problem was focused on gaining a better understanding of how geometries impact transition probabilities. Initially we used values derived for an eleven atom chain and shortened it to just five atoms so that we could probe the behavior more carefully. We built the checkerboard-to-checkerboard flip described above on this five atom chain. The preparation probability was 90% and the transition probability was ~77%. We then expanded to a nine atom chain that we were able to switch from the prepared 010101010 to the inverse 101010101. The preparation probability was 90% and the transition probability was ~70%. We then moved on to larger 2D lattice geometries like 2x2 and 3x3 to probe the change in behavior when more than two atoms could be in the rydberg blockade as each other. In this regime, we noted that the preparation fidelity dropped to 80% and the conversion efficiency was ~20%. Exploring ways to return to the high probability regime of the chain geometry while staying in the 2D realm with many atoms, we tested a “donut” shape (3x3 with a missing the center) and found that while this did not change the preparation fidelity (it remained at 80%) but the conversion efficiency jumped to ~40%, closer to that of a chain.

In the absence of hardware to run on, many adjustments were made. In order to implement error correction, we first had to generate artificial error by creating a probability proportional to the number of 1’s and 0’s that a 0-10% or 0-2% reduction in the measured probability. This is representative of a single bit flip on a random qubit. To correct for this, the measured values were uniformly increased by 3%, the average probable error. As seen in our results, the corrected simulated results match well with the results from the simulation where no error was introduced.
